docs/tips-tricks-snippets.md, before:

# Tips, tricks and snippets

## Table of contents

* [Vendor and .gitignore](#vendor-gitignore)
* [Add sidebar classes to body](#sidebar-classes)
* [Add expanded class to menu items with depth](#menu-depth-classes)

<a name="vendor-gitignore"></a>

## Add vendor folder of the theme to .gitignore

If you using Git to manage your project than you can drop in issue, then after migration theme is broken, it's because vendor folder set in .gitignore, and STARTER theme has this folder also to store third-party libraries. Drupal 8 by default exclude vendor folder from repo. All you need to do is add force include for this folder.

~~~bash
# Don't forget to replace STARTER with your theme name.
!/themes/custom/STARTER/styles/scss/vendor/
~~~

<a name="sidebar-classes"></a>

## Add sidebar classes to <body>

Sometimes you need to add classes for sidebars in the body for managing your layout. This snippet helps you to do that by adding to `<body>` classes like `layout-sidebar-NAME`. This is only works with regions which starts with `sidebar_`.

Add this to your `THEMENAME.theme`.

~~~php
/**
 * Implements hook_preprocess_HOOK() for HTML document templates.
 * Adds body classes if certain regions have content.
 */
function THEMENAME_theme_preprocess_html(&$variables) {
  foreach ($variables['page'] as $element_key => $element) {
    if (preg_match("/sidebar_(.+)/", $element_key)) {
      $variables['attributes']['class'][] = 'layout-' . str_replace('_', '-', $element_key);
    }
  }
}
~~~

<a name="menu-depth-classes"></a>

## Add expanded class to menu items with depth

If you want to add class to `<li>` element with outher items, use one of this snippets.

### Only for first depth items

~~~php
/**
 * Impelemnts hook_preprocess_HOOK().
 */
function THEMENAME_preprocess_menu__main(&$variables) {
  foreach ($variables['items'] as $k => &$v) {
    if (count($v['below']) > 0) {
      $v['attributes']->addClass('expanded');
    }
  }
}
~~~

## Create full pages

For example you need to add ability add pages without sidebars and for full width.

F.e. you have node entity, with page bundle, and it has field `field_page_is_fullpage` which is boolean with values 1 and 0.

```php
/**
 * Implements hook_preprocess_html().
 */
function THEMENAME_preprocess_html(&$variables) {
  if ($node = \Drupal::routeMatch()->getParameter('node')) {
    // Page.
    if ($node->bundle() == 'page') {
      if ($node->field_page_is_fullpage->value === '1') {
        // Unset sidebars.
        foreach ($variables['page'] as $region_name => $region) {
          if (preg_match("/sidebar_(.+)/", $region_name)) {
            unset($variables['page'][$region_name]);
          }
        }

        $variables['attributes']['class'][] = 'page-is-fullpage';
      }
    }
  }
}
```

If you also use classes for sidebars from example above. Current code must be higher than sidebar classes. This will precent to add sidebar classes at all, so you don't need to clean them by yourself.

This will disable regions which name starts with `sidebar_`, so others will be working.

Commit message:

Tips and tricks changes to new structure

docs/tips-tricks-snippets.md, after:

# Tips, tricks and snippets

## Table of contents

* [Vendor and .gitignore](#vendor-gitignore)
* [Add sidebar classes to body](#sidebar-classes)
* [Add expanded class to menu items with depth](#menu-depth-classes)

<a name="vendor-gitignore"></a>

## Add vendor folder of the theme to .gitignore

If you using Git to manage your project than you can drop in issue, then after migration theme is broken, it's because vendor folder set in .gitignore, and STARTER theme has this folder also to store third-party libraries. Drupal 8 by default exclude vendor folder from repo. All you need to do is add force include for this folder.

~~~bash
# Don't forget to replace STARTER with your theme name.
!/themes/custom/STARTER/styles/scss/vendor/
~~~

<a name="sidebar-classes"></a>

## Add sidebar classes to <body>

Sometimes you need to add classes for sidebars in the body for managing your layout. This snippet helps you to do that by adding to `<body>` classes like `layout-sidebar-NAME`. This is only works with regions which starts with `sidebar_`.

Add this to your `includes/structure.inc`.

~~~php
/**
 * Implements hook_preprocess_HOOK() for HTML document templates.
 * Adds body classes if certain regions have content.
 */
function THEMENAME_theme_preprocess_html(&$variables) {
  foreach ($variables['page'] as $element_key => $element) {
    if (preg_match("/sidebar_(.+)/", $element_key)) {
      $variables['attributes']['class'][] = 'layout-' . str_replace('_', '-', $element_key);
    }
  }
}
~~~

<a name="menu-depth-classes"></a>

## Add expanded class to menu items with depth

If you want to add class to `<li>` element with outher items, use one of this snippets.

### Only for first depth items

Add this to your `includes/menu.inc`.

~~~php
/**
 * Impelemnts hook_preprocess_HOOK().
 */
function THEMENAME_preprocess_menu__main(&$variables) {
  foreach ($variables['items'] as $k => &$v) {
    if (count($v['below']) > 0) {
      $v['attributes']->addClass('expanded');
    }
  }
}
~~~

## Create full pages

For example you need to add ability add pages without sidebars and for full width.

F.e. you have node entity, with page bundle, and it has field `field_page_is_fullpage` which is boolean with values 1 and 0.

Add this to your `includes/structure.inc`.

```php
/**
 * Implements hook_preprocess_html().
 */
function THEMENAME_preprocess_html(&$variables) {
  if ($node = \Drupal::routeMatch()->getParameter('node')) {
    // Page.
    if ($node->bundle() == 'page') {
      if ($node->field_page_is_fullpage->value === '1') {
        // Unset sidebars.
        foreach ($variables['page'] as $region_name => $region) {
          if (preg_match("/sidebar_(.+)/", $region_name)) {
            unset($variables['page'][$region_name]);
          }
        }

        $variables['attributes']['class'][] = 'page-is-fullpage';
      }
    }
  }
}
```

If you also use classes for sidebars from example above. Current code must be higher than sidebar classes. This will precent to add sidebar classes at all, so you don't need to clean them by yourself.

This will disable regions which name starts with `sidebar_`, so others will be working.
